README.md, before:

# RunnerAttitude - A Garmin Connect IQ Watch Face

Runner Attitude aims to keep your morale high and your mind focused on your wellbeing, displaying motivational phrases from its internal collection or your own self-motivation words.
Runner Attitude also displays a lot of information in a nice an easy to read layout with many elegant colorful themes to choose.

Runner Attitude is completely free to use. You will never find any restrictions!

However if you like it I encourage you to make a small donation to help me to buy my next pair of running shoes, or buying me an isotonic drink, or why not a beer :D
Link for donations: https://paypal.me/jchabsi Thanks a lot :)

Main features:

- Twinkling or scrolling motivational quotes that change according to a user configurable interval
- Possibility to set small non-scrolling fixed phrases or words instead of long scrolling phrases. (might save a bit of battery)
- You can set your own motivational phrase or the text that you want to display
- Select different colorful themes to renew Runner Attitude look and feel whenever you want
- Configurable runner avatar that shows your step goal progress. (Girl avatar, Boy, gender from watch settings, off)
- Date / Time
- Seconds on / off
- Heart rate
- Calories
- Steps goal
- Vertical Distance (Floors / Meters)
- Notifications
- Bluetooth on / off indicator
- Colorful battery indicator / Battery percentage

I have tried to support as many devices as possible but some legacy devices lack good resolution and colors thus the look and feel will be different from the screenshots.

Your feedback is very welcome!
If you want to contribute translating the phrases to your native language contact me!
I hope you enjoy it!


What’s New

Version 1.16.0
- Added Garmin Weather support (Only for supported Devices) 

Version 1.15.0
- Now you can enter up to 3 personalized phrases
- Show or hide hour leading zero
- Replaced Date display font by a system font for all devices for avoiding unrecognized special symbols for some languages
- New theme: Running is color 3!
- Bug fix that was making the watch face to crash on some devices 

Version 1.14.1
- Fixes a bug introduced with the last theme addition
- Tweaks for the last theme added

Version 1.14.0
- When switching between vertical meters and floors climbed changes the icon
- New theme: Golden Trophy
- Code improvements

Version 1.13.0
- Updated to CIQ SDK 4.0.x for new devices support
- Venu 2 and Venu 2S layouts

Version 1.12.0
- Italian Translation! By Andrea Zannoni - Thanks a lot!!! 

Version 1.11.1
- Fixed HR issue introduced in the previous version
 
Version 1.11.0
- Added option to show battery percentage
- Improved battery indicator position and size
- Seconds indicator minor adjustments
- Complete revamp for Venu and 390x390 watches with bigger icons and fonts
- Bigger time font for 280x280 and 260x260 devices
- Icon alignment improvements
- Ability to choose date format including day of the week

Version 1.10.2
- Added options to show steps and kms or miles at the same time
- icons position adjusted to fit according to the modification and esthetic look

Version 1.10.1
- Fixed distance unit conversions

Version 1.10.0
- In addition to steps added option to show distance in kilometers and miles
- Added a dark surrounding rectangle to show runner and trophy in light themes where images are not very distinguishable
- 5 new themes!
- Minor code refactoring
- Improved catalog texts

Version 1.9.0
- 25 new motivational / inspirational phrases
- 4 New color themes
- minor bug fixed

Version 1.8.3
- Themes improvements for better vision and style
- New Theme 'Running is Color 2!'
- Small code clean up

Version 1.8.1
- Fix for 12 hour time

Version 1.8
- Added ability to show 12/24hr time according to system settings
- Allows to set if the phrase continues moving or not on Low Power Mode
- Two new themes: Quirk Runner and Running is Color!

Version 1.7.1
- Runner Attitude and Ultraviolet themes were updated
- Minor correction on English catalog

Version 1.7
- Allows to select the scrolling or twinkling phrase speed

Version 1.6
- Layout Revamp
- Ability to display altitude (Meters or floors)

Version 1.5.3
- Fixes issue with phrase scrolling in low power mode

Version 1.5.2
- 2 new themes: Ultraviolet and Finish Line

Version 1.5.1
- fixes a HR bug

Version 1.5.0
- You can set your custom motivational phrase
- Heart Rate improvements
- Progress bar was made a little bit thicker

Version 1.4.2
The following issues were fixed:
- Continuos seconds display even on sleep mode (for devices that support partial update)
- Continuos phrase scroll or twinkle even on sleep mode (for devices that support partial update)

Version 1.4.1
- Disabling partial update (Temporary until I correct a bug)

Version 1.4.0
- Continuos seconds display even on sleep mode (for devices that support partial update)
- Continuos phrase scroll or twinkle even on sleep mode (for devices that support partial update)
- New theme (Running under the stars)
- Bug fix - Scrolling phrase wasn’t working since last version
- Code optimizations

Version 1.3.0
- Spanish translation!
- Minor English corrections
- New Theme: Sunset Run

Version 1.2.0
- A trophy is displayed when the step goal is reached
- Bugfix: Progress bar stops drawing when goal step is reached
- Added 3 new Themes!

Version 1.1.1
- Removed option "Stop Animations" Because on Sleep Mode animations are always stopped. Now when the watch enters on sleep mode seconds are hidden and the phrase is frozen.

Version 1.1.0
- Added the twinkling mode to display phrases faster
- Fixed the ability for renewing a phrase after the configured time period
- Themes tweaks for better visualization
- Adjusted progress bar size
- Code optimizations and performance improvements

Version 1.0
- Inttial Release

Acknowledgements

- I have learnt many things from the Crystal Watch Face Source code: https://github.com/warmsound/crystal-face and I borrowed some fonts from it :)
- Italian Translation by Andrea Zannoni

Commit message:

Optimizations to use less memory for avoiding crashes and other issues

README.md, after:

# RunnerAttitude - A Garmin Connect IQ Watch Face

Runner Attitude aims to keep your morale high and your mind focused on your wellbeing, displaying motivational phrases from its internal collection or your own self-motivation words.
Runner Attitude also displays a lot of information in a nice an easy to read layout with many elegant colorful themes to choose.

Runner Attitude is completely free to use. You will never find any restrictions!

However if you like it I encourage you to make a small donation to help me to buy my next pair of running shoes, or buying me an isotonic drink, or why not a beer :D
Link for donations: https://paypal.me/jchabsi Thanks a lot :)

Main features:

- Twinkling or scrolling motivational quotes that change according to a user configurable interval
- Possibility to set small non-scrolling fixed phrases or words instead of long scrolling phrases. (might save a bit of battery)
- You can set your own motivational phrase or the text that you want to display
- Select different colorful themes to renew Runner Attitude look and feel whenever you want
- Configurable runner avatar that shows your step goal progress. (Girl avatar, Boy, gender from watch settings, off)
- Date / Time
- Seconds on / off
- Heart rate
- Calories
- Steps goal
- Vertical Distance (Floors / Meters)
- Notifications
- Bluetooth on / off indicator
- Colorful battery indicator / Battery percentage

I have tried to support as many devices as possible but some legacy devices lack good resolution and colors thus the look and feel will be different from the screenshots.

Your feedback is very welcome!
If you want to contribute translating the phrases to your native language contact me!
I hope you enjoy it!


What’s New

Version 1.16.1 
- Optimizations to use less memory and avoid reported issues and crashes on some devices

Version 1.16.0
- Added Garmin Weather support (Only for supported Devices) 

Version 1.15.0
- Now you can enter up to 3 personalized phrases
- Show or hide hour leading zero
- Replaced Date display font by a system font for all devices for avoiding unrecognized special symbols for some languages
- New theme: Running is color 3!
- Bug fix that was making the watch face to crash on some devices 

Version 1.14.1
- Fixes a bug introduced with the last theme addition
- Tweaks for the last theme added

Version 1.14.0
- When switching between vertical meters and floors climbed changes the icon
- New theme: Golden Trophy
- Code improvements

Version 1.13.0
- Updated to CIQ SDK 4.0.x for new devices support
- Venu 2 and Venu 2S layouts

Version 1.12.0
- Italian Translation! By Andrea Zannoni - Thanks a lot!!! 

Version 1.11.1
- Fixed HR issue introduced in the previous version
 
Version 1.11.0
- Added option to show battery percentage
- Improved battery indicator position and size
- Seconds indicator minor adjustments
- Complete revamp for Venu and 390x390 watches with bigger icons and fonts
- Bigger time font for 280x280 and 260x260 devices
- Icon alignment improvements
- Ability to choose date format including day of the week

Version 1.10.2
- Added options to show steps and kms or miles at the same time
- icons position adjusted to fit according to the modification and esthetic look

Version 1.10.1
- Fixed distance unit conversions

Version 1.10.0
- In addition to steps added option to show distance in kilometers and miles
- Added a dark surrounding rectangle to show runner and trophy in light themes where images are not very distinguishable
- 5 new themes!
- Minor code refactoring
- Improved catalog texts

Version 1.9.0
- 25 new motivational / inspirational phrases
- 4 New color themes
- minor bug fixed

Version 1.8.3
- Themes improvements for better vision and style
- New Theme 'Running is Color 2!'
- Small code clean up

Version 1.8.1
- Fix for 12 hour time

Version 1.8
- Added ability to show 12/24hr time according to system settings
- Allows to set if the phrase continues moving or not on Low Power Mode
- Two new themes: Quirk Runner and Running is Color!

Version 1.7.1
- Runner Attitude and Ultraviolet themes were updated
- Minor correction on English catalog

Version 1.7
- Allows to select the scrolling or twinkling phrase speed

Version 1.6
- Layout Revamp
- Ability to display altitude (Meters or floors)

Version 1.5.3
- Fixes issue with phrase scrolling in low power mode

Version 1.5.2
- 2 new themes: Ultraviolet and Finish Line

Version 1.5.1
- fixes a HR bug

Version 1.5.0
- You can set your custom motivational phrase
- Heart Rate improvements
- Progress bar was made a little bit thicker

Version 1.4.2
The following issues were fixed:
- Continuos seconds display even on sleep mode (for devices that support partial update)
- Continuos phrase scroll or twinkle even on sleep mode (for devices that support partial update)

Version 1.4.1
- Disabling partial update (Temporary until I correct a bug)

Version 1.4.0
- Continuos seconds display even on sleep mode (for devices that support partial update)
- Continuos phrase scroll or twinkle even on sleep mode (for devices that support partial update)
- New theme (Running under the stars)
- Bug fix - Scrolling phrase wasn’t working since last version
- Code optimizations

Version 1.3.0
- Spanish translation!
- Minor English corrections
- New Theme: Sunset Run

Version 1.2.0
- A trophy is displayed when the step goal is reached
- Bugfix: Progress bar stops drawing when goal step is reached
- Added 3 new Themes!

Version 1.1.1
- Removed option "Stop Animations" Because on Sleep Mode animations are always stopped. Now when the watch enters on sleep mode seconds are hidden and the phrase is frozen.

Version 1.1.0
- Added the twinkling mode to display phrases faster
- Fixed the ability for renewing a phrase after the configured time period
- Themes tweaks for better visualization
- Adjusted progress bar size
- Code optimizations and performance improvements

Version 1.0
- Inttial Release

Acknowledgements

- I have learnt many things from the Crystal Watch Face Source code: https://github.com/warmsound/crystal-face and I borrowed some fonts from it :)
- Italian Translation by Andrea Zannoni
